docs/how_to/deploy/arm_compute_lib.rst, before:

..  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

..  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Relay Arm\ :sup:`®` Compute Library Integration
===============================================
**Author**: `Luke Hutton <https://github.com/lhutton1>`_

Introduction
------------

Arm Compute Library (ACL) is an open source project that provides accelerated kernels for Arm CPU's
and GPU's. Currently the integration offloads operators to ACL to use hand-crafted assembler
routines in the library. By offloading select operators from a relay graph to ACL we can achieve
a performance boost on such devices.

Installing Arm Compute Library
------------------------------

Before installing Arm Compute Library, it is important to know what architecture to build for. One way
to determine this is to use `lscpu` and look for the "Model name" of the CPU. You can then use this to
determine the architecture by looking online.

We recommend two different ways to build and install ACL:

* Use the script located at `docker/install/ubuntu_install_arm_compute_lib.sh`. You can use this
  script for building ACL from source natively or for cross-compiling the library on an x86 machine.
  You may need to change the architecture of the device you wish to compile for by altering the
  `target_arch` variable. Binaries will be built from source and installed to the location denoted by
  `install_path`.
* Alternatively, you can download and use pre-built binaries from:
  https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases. When using this package, you will need to
  select the binaries for the architecture you require and make sure they are visible to cmake. This
  can be done like so:

  .. code:: bash

      cd <acl-prebuilt-package>/lib
      mv ./linux-<architecture-to-build-for>-neon/* .


In both cases you will need to set USE_ARM_COMPUTE_LIB_GRAPH_EXECUTOR to the path where the ACL package
is located. Cmake will look in /path-to-acl/ along with /path-to-acl/lib and /path-to-acl/build for the
required binaries. See the section below for more information on how to use these configuration options.

Building with ACL support
-------------------------

The current implementation has two separate build options in cmake. The reason for this split is
because ACL cannot be used on an x86 machine. However, we still want to be able compile an ACL
runtime module on an x86 machine.

* USE_ARM_COMPUTE_LIB=ON/OFF - Enabling this flag will add support for compiling an ACL runtime module.
* USE_ARM_COMPUTE_LIB_GRAPH_EXECUTOR=ON/OFF/path-to-acl - Enabling this flag will allow the graph executor to
  compute the ACL offloaded functions.

These flags can be used in different scenarios depending on your setup. For example, if you want
to compile an ACL module on an x86 machine and then run the module on a remote Arm device via RPC, you will
need to use USE_ARM_COMPUTE_LIB=ON on the x86 machine and USE_ARM_COMPUTE_LIB_GRAPH_EXECUTOR=ON on the remote
AArch64 device.

By default both options are set to OFF. Using USE_ARM_COMPUTE_LIB_GRAPH_EXECUTOR=ON will mean that ACL
binaries are searched for by cmake in the default locations
(see https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.4/command/find_library.html). In addition to this,
/path-to-tvm-project/acl/ will also be searched. It is likely that you will need to set your own path to
locate ACL. This can be done by specifying a path in the place of ON.

These flags should be set in your config.cmake file. For example:

.. code:: cmake

    set(USE_ARM_COMPUTE_LIB ON)
    set(USE_ARM_COMPUTE_LIB_GRAPH_EXECUTOR /path/to/acl)


Usage
-----

.. note::

    This section may not stay up-to-date with changes to the API.

Create a relay graph. This may be a single operator or a whole graph. The intention is that any
relay graph can be input. The ACL integration will only pick supported operators to be offloaded
whilst the rest will be computed via TVM. (For this example we will use a single
max_pool2d operator).

.. code:: python

    import tvm
    from tvm import relay

    data_type = "float32"
    data_shape = (1, 14, 14, 512)
    strides = (2, 2)
    padding = (0, 0, 0, 0)
    pool_size = (2, 2)
    layout = "NHWC"
    output_shape = (1, 7, 7, 512)

    data = relay.var('data', shape=data_shape, dtype=data_type)
    out = relay.nn.max_pool2d(data, pool_size=pool_size, strides=strides, layout=layout, padding=padding)
    module = tvm.IRModule.from_expr(out)


Annotate and partition the graph for ACL.

.. code:: python

    from tvm.relay.op.contrib.arm_compute_lib import partition_for_arm_compute_lib
    module = partition_for_arm_compute_lib(module)


Build the Relay graph.

.. code:: python

    target = "llvm -mtriple=aarch64-linux-gnu -mattr=+neon"
    with tvm.transform.PassContext(opt_level=3, disabled_pass=["AlterOpLayout"]):
        lib = relay.build(module, target=target)


Export the module.

.. code:: python

    lib_path = '~/lib_acl.so'
    cross_compile = 'aarch64-linux-gnu-c++'
    lib.export_library(lib_path, cc=cross_compile)


Run Inference. This must be on an Arm device. If compiling on x86 device and
running on AArch64, consider using the RPC mechanism. :ref:`Tutorials for using
the RPC mechanism <tutorial-cross-compilation-and-rpc>`

.. code:: python

    dev = tvm.cpu(0)
    loaded_lib = tvm.runtime.load_module('lib_acl.so')
    gen_module = tvm.contrib.graph_executor.GraphModule(loaded_lib['default'](dev))
    d_data = np.random.uniform(0, 1, data_shape).astype(data_type)
    map_inputs = {'data': d_data}
    gen_module.set_input(**map_inputs)
    gen_module.run()


More examples
-------------
The example above only shows a basic example of how ACL can be used for offloading a single
Maxpool2D. If you would like to see more examples for each implemented operator and for
networks refer to the tests: `tests/python/contrib/test_arm_compute_lib`. Here you can modify
`test_config.json` to configure how a remote device is created in `infrastructure.py` and,
as a result, how runtime tests will be run.

An example configuration for `test_config.json`:

* connection_type - The type of RPC connection. Options: local, tracker, remote.
* host - The host device to connect to.
* port - The port to use when connecting.
* target - The target to use for compilation.
* device_key - The device key when connecting via a tracker.
* cross_compile - Path to cross compiler when connecting from a non-arm platform e.g. aarch64-linux-gnu-g++.

.. code:: json

    {
      "connection_type": "local",
      "host": "127.0.0.1",
      "port": 9090,
      "target": "llvm -mtriple=aarch64-linux-gnu -mattr=+neon",
      "device_key": "",
      "cross_compile": ""
    }


Operator support
----------------
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Relay Node           | Remarks                                                                 |
+======================+=========================================================================+
| nn.conv2d            | fp32:                                                                   |
|                      |   Simple: nn.conv2d                                                     |
|                      |   Composite: nn.pad?, nn.conv2d, nn.bias_add?, nn.relu?                 |
|                      |                                                                         |
|                      | Normal and depth-wise (when kernel is 3x3 or 5x5 and strides are 1x1    |
|                      | or 2x2) convolution supported. Grouped convolution is not supported.    |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| qnn.conv2d           | uint8:                                                                  |
|                      |   Composite: nn.pad?, nn.conv2d, nn.bias_add?, nn.relu?, qnn.requantize |
|                      |                                                                         |
|                      | Normal and depth-wise (when kernel is 3x3 or 5x5 and strides are 1x1    |
|                      | or 2x2) convolution supported. Grouped convolution is not supported.    |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| nn.dense             | fp32:                                                                   |
|                      |   Simple: nn.dense                                                      |
|                      |   Composite: nn.dense, nn.bias_add?                                     |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| qnn.dense            | uint8:                                                                  |
|                      |   Composite: qnn.dense, nn.bias_add?, qnn.requantize                    |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| nn.max_pool2d        | fp32, uint8                                                             |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| nn.global_max_pool2d | fp32, uint8                                                             |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| nn.avg_pool2d        | fp32:                                                                   |
|                      |    Simple: nn.avg_pool2d                                                |
|                      |                                                                         |
|                      | uint8:                                                                  |
|                      |    Composite: cast(int32), nn.avg_pool2d, cast(uint8)                   |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| nn.global_avg_pool2d | fp32:                                                                   |
|                      |    Simple: nn.global_avg_pool2d                                         |
|                      |                                                                         |
|                      | uint8:                                                                  |
|                      |    Composite: cast(int32), nn.avg_pool2d, cast(uint8)                   |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| power(of 2) +        | A special case for L2 pooling.                                          |
| nn.avg_pool2d +      |                                                                         |
| sqrt                 | fp32:                                                                   |
|                      |    Composite: power(of 2), nn.avg_pool2d, sqrt                          |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| reshape              | fp32, uint8                                                             |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| maximum              | fp32                                                                    |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| add                  | fp32                                                                    |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| qnn.add              | uint8                                                                   |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. note::
    A composite operator is a series of operators that map to a single Arm Compute Library operator. You can view this
    as being a single fused operator from the view point of Arm Compute Library. '?' denotes an optional operator in
    the series of operators that make up a composite operator.


Adding a new operator
---------------------
Adding a new operator requires changes to a series of places. This section will give a hint on
what needs to be changed and where, it will not however dive into the complexities for an
individual operator. This is left to the developer.

There are a series of files we need to make changes to:

* `python/relay/op/contrib/arm_compute_lib.py` In this file we define the operators we wish to offload using the
  `op.register` decorator. This will mean the annotation pass recognizes this operator as ACL offloadable.
* `src/relay/backend/contrib/arm_compute_lib/codegen.cc` Implement `Create[OpName]JSONNode` method. This is where we
  declare how the operator should be represented by JSON. This will be used to create the ACL module.
* `src/runtime/contrib/arm_compute_lib/acl_runtime.cc` Implement `Create[OpName]Layer` method. This is where we
  define how the JSON representation can be used to create an ACL function. We simply define how to
  translate from the JSON representation to ACL API.
* `tests/python/contrib/test_arm_compute_lib` Add unit tests for the given operator.

Commit message:

[BYOC][ACL] Update installation docs (#9426)
Also updated CMake to proper casing

docs/how_to/deploy/arm_compute_lib.rst, after:

..  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

..  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Relay Arm\ :sup:`®` Compute Library Integration
===============================================
**Author**: `Luke Hutton <https://github.com/lhutton1>`_

Introduction
------------

Arm Compute Library (ACL) is an open source project that provides accelerated kernels for Arm CPU's
and GPU's. Currently the integration offloads operators to ACL to use hand-crafted assembler
routines in the library. By offloading select operators from a relay graph to ACL we can achieve
a performance boost on such devices.

Installing Arm Compute Library
------------------------------

Before installing Arm Compute Library, it is important to know what architecture to build for. One way
to determine this is to use `lscpu` and look for the "Model name" of the CPU. You can then use this to
determine the architecture by looking online.

TVM only supports a single version of ACL, currently this is v21.08, there are two recommended ways to build and install 
the required libraries:

* Use the script located at `docker/install/ubuntu_download_arm_compute_lib_binaries.sh`. You can use this
  script for downloading ACL binaries for the architecture and extensions specified in `target_lib`, these
  will be installed to the location denoted by `install_path`.
* Alternatively, you can download the pre-built binaries from:
  https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases. When using this package, you will need to
  select the binaries for the architecture and extensions you require, then make sure they are visible
  to CMake:

  .. code:: bash

      cd <acl-prebuilt-package>/lib
      mv ./<architecture-and-extensions-required>/* .


In both cases you will need to set USE_ARM_COMPUTE_LIB_GRAPH_EXECUTOR to the path where the ACL package
is located. CMake will look in /path-to-acl/ along with /path-to-acl/lib and /path-to-acl/build for the
required binaries. See the section below for more information on how to use these configuration options.

Building with ACL support
-------------------------

The current implementation has two separate build options in CMake. The reason for this split is
because ACL cannot be used on an x86 machine. However, we still want to be able compile an ACL
runtime module on an x86 machine.

* USE_ARM_COMPUTE_LIB=ON/OFF - Enabling this flag will add support for compiling an ACL runtime module.
* USE_ARM_COMPUTE_LIB_GRAPH_EXECUTOR=ON/OFF/path-to-acl - Enabling this flag will allow the graph executor to
  compute the ACL offloaded functions.

These flags can be used in different scenarios depending on your setup. For example, if you want
to compile an ACL module on an x86 machine and then run the module on a remote Arm device via RPC, you will
need to use USE_ARM_COMPUTE_LIB=ON on the x86 machine and USE_ARM_COMPUTE_LIB_GRAPH_EXECUTOR=ON on the remote
AArch64 device.

By default both options are set to OFF. Using USE_ARM_COMPUTE_LIB_GRAPH_EXECUTOR=ON will mean that ACL
binaries are searched for by CMake in the default locations
(see https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.4/command/find_library.html). In addition to this,
/path-to-tvm-project/acl/ will also be searched. It is likely that you will need to set your own path to
locate ACL. This can be done by specifying a path in the place of ON.

These flags should be set in your config.cmake file. For example:

.. code:: cmake

    set(USE_ARM_COMPUTE_LIB ON)
    set(USE_ARM_COMPUTE_LIB_GRAPH_EXECUTOR /path/to/acl)


Usage
-----

.. note::

    This section may not stay up-to-date with changes to the API.

Create a relay graph. This may be a single operator or a whole graph. The intention is that any
relay graph can be input. The ACL integration will only pick supported operators to be offloaded
whilst the rest will be computed via TVM. (For this example we will use a single
max_pool2d operator).

.. code:: python

    import tvm
    from tvm import relay

    data_type = "float32"
    data_shape = (1, 14, 14, 512)
    strides = (2, 2)
    padding = (0, 0, 0, 0)
    pool_size = (2, 2)
    layout = "NHWC"
    output_shape = (1, 7, 7, 512)

    data = relay.var('data', shape=data_shape, dtype=data_type)
    out = relay.nn.max_pool2d(data, pool_size=pool_size, strides=strides, layout=layout, padding=padding)
    module = tvm.IRModule.from_expr(out)


Annotate and partition the graph for ACL.

.. code:: python

    from tvm.relay.op.contrib.arm_compute_lib import partition_for_arm_compute_lib
    module = partition_for_arm_compute_lib(module)


Build the Relay graph.

.. code:: python

    target = "llvm -mtriple=aarch64-linux-gnu -mattr=+neon"
    with tvm.transform.PassContext(opt_level=3, disabled_pass=["AlterOpLayout"]):
        lib = relay.build(module, target=target)


Export the module.

.. code:: python

    lib_path = '~/lib_acl.so'
    cross_compile = 'aarch64-linux-gnu-c++'
    lib.export_library(lib_path, cc=cross_compile)


Run Inference. This must be on an Arm device. If compiling on x86 device and
running on AArch64, consider using the RPC mechanism. :ref:`Tutorials for using
the RPC mechanism <tutorial-cross-compilation-and-rpc>`

.. code:: python

    dev = tvm.cpu(0)
    loaded_lib = tvm.runtime.load_module('lib_acl.so')
    gen_module = tvm.contrib.graph_executor.GraphModule(loaded_lib['default'](dev))
    d_data = np.random.uniform(0, 1, data_shape).astype(data_type)
    map_inputs = {'data': d_data}
    gen_module.set_input(**map_inputs)
    gen_module.run()


More examples
-------------
The example above only shows a basic example of how ACL can be used for offloading a single
Maxpool2D. If you would like to see more examples for each implemented operator and for
networks refer to the tests: `tests/python/contrib/test_arm_compute_lib`. Here you can modify
`test_config.json` to configure how a remote device is created in `infrastructure.py` and,
as a result, how runtime tests will be run.

An example configuration for `test_config.json`:

* connection_type - The type of RPC connection. Options: local, tracker, remote.
* host - The host device to connect to.
* port - The port to use when connecting.
* target - The target to use for compilation.
* device_key - The device key when connecting via a tracker.
* cross_compile - Path to cross compiler when connecting from a non-arm platform e.g. aarch64-linux-gnu-g++.

.. code:: json

    {
      "connection_type": "local",
      "host": "127.0.0.1",
      "port": 9090,
      "target": "llvm -mtriple=aarch64-linux-gnu -mattr=+neon",
      "device_key": "",
      "cross_compile": ""
    }


Operator support
----------------
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Relay Node           | Remarks                                                                 |
+======================+=========================================================================+
| nn.conv2d            | fp32:                                                                   |
|                      |   Simple: nn.conv2d                                                     |
|                      |   Composite: nn.pad?, nn.conv2d, nn.bias_add?, nn.relu?                 |
|                      |                                                                         |
|                      | Normal and depth-wise (when kernel is 3x3 or 5x5 and strides are 1x1    |
|                      | or 2x2) convolution supported. Grouped convolution is not supported.    |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| qnn.conv2d           | uint8:                                                                  |
|                      |   Composite: nn.pad?, nn.conv2d, nn.bias_add?, nn.relu?, qnn.requantize |
|                      |                                                                         |
|                      | Normal and depth-wise (when kernel is 3x3 or 5x5 and strides are 1x1    |
|                      | or 2x2) convolution supported. Grouped convolution is not supported.    |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| nn.dense             | fp32:                                                                   |
|                      |   Simple: nn.dense                                                      |
|                      |   Composite: nn.dense, nn.bias_add?                                     |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| qnn.dense            | uint8:                                                                  |
|                      |   Composite: qnn.dense, nn.bias_add?, qnn.requantize                    |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| nn.max_pool2d        | fp32, uint8                                                             |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| nn.global_max_pool2d | fp32, uint8                                                             |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| nn.avg_pool2d        | fp32:                                                                   |
|                      |    Simple: nn.avg_pool2d                                                |
|                      |                                                                         |
|                      | uint8:                                                                  |
|                      |    Composite: cast(int32), nn.avg_pool2d, cast(uint8)                   |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| nn.global_avg_pool2d | fp32:                                                                   |
|                      |    Simple: nn.global_avg_pool2d                                         |
|                      |                                                                         |
|                      | uint8:                                                                  |
|                      |    Composite: cast(int32), nn.avg_pool2d, cast(uint8)                   |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| power(of 2) +        | A special case for L2 pooling.                                          |
| nn.avg_pool2d +      |                                                                         |
| sqrt                 | fp32:                                                                   |
|                      |    Composite: power(of 2), nn.avg_pool2d, sqrt                          |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| reshape              | fp32, uint8                                                             |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| maximum              | fp32                                                                    |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| add                  | fp32                                                                    |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| qnn.add              | uint8                                                                   |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. note::
    A composite operator is a series of operators that map to a single Arm Compute Library operator. You can view this
    as being a single fused operator from the view point of Arm Compute Library. '?' denotes an optional operator in
    the series of operators that make up a composite operator.


Adding a new operator
---------------------
Adding a new operator requires changes to a series of places. This section will give a hint on
what needs to be changed and where, it will not however dive into the complexities for an
individual operator. This is left to the developer.

There are a series of files we need to make changes to:

* `python/relay/op/contrib/arm_compute_lib.py` In this file we define the operators we wish to offload using the
  `op.register` decorator. This will mean the annotation pass recognizes this operator as ACL offloadable.
* `src/relay/backend/contrib/arm_compute_lib/codegen.cc` Implement `Create[OpName]JSONNode` method. This is where we
  declare how the operator should be represented by JSON. This will be used to create the ACL module.
* `src/runtime/contrib/arm_compute_lib/acl_runtime.cc` Implement `Create[OpName]Layer` method. This is where we
  define how the JSON representation can be used to create an ACL function. We simply define how to
  translate from the JSON representation to ACL API.
* `tests/python/contrib/test_arm_compute_lib` Add unit tests for the given operator.
